OSSM-6063 [DOC] OpenShift Service Mesh Console (OSSMC) plugin Integration (#88446)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ossm-install-console-plugin-ocp-cli.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * service-mesh-docs-main/observability/kiali/ossm-console-plugin-assembly.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ossm-install-console-plugin-ocp-cli_{context}"]
= Installing {SMPluginShort} via {ocp-short-name} CLI

You can install the {SMPlugin} using the {ocp-short-name} CLI.

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the {ocp-short-name} cluster via CLI as an administrator.
* You have installed the {SMProduct} (OSSM).
* You have installed the `{istio}` control plane from OSSM 3.0.
* You have installed the {KialiServer} 2.4.

.Procedure

. Create a `OSSMConsole` custom resource (CR) to install the plugin:
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
cat <<EOM | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: kiali.io/v1alpha1
kind: OSSMConsole
metadata:
  namespace: openshift-operators
  name: ossmconsole
spec:
  version: default
EOM
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> The {OSSMC} (OSSMC) version must match with the {KialiServer} version. If `spec.version` field value is the string `default` or is not specified, the Kiali Operator installs OSSMC with the same version as the operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {OSSMC} (OSSMC) version must match with the {KialiServer} version. If `spec.version` field value is the string `default` or is not specified, the Kiali Operator installs OSSMC with the same version as the operator. Otherwise, the `spec.version` field requires the "v" prefix to the version number, and the version number must only include the major and minor version numbers (patch number must be omitted); for example: `v1.73`.
```

====
+
The plugin resources deploy in the same namespace as the `OSSMConsole` CR.

. Optional: If more than one {KialiServer} is installed in the cluster, specify the `spec.kiali` setting in the OSSMC CR. For example:
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
cat <<EOM | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: kiali.io/v1alpha1
kind: OSSMConsole
metadata:
  namespace: openshift-operators
  name: ossmconsole
spec:
  kiali:
    serviceName: kiali
    serviceNamespace: istio-system-two
    servicePort: 20001
EOM
----

. Go to the {ocp-short-name} web console.

> . Refresh the {ocp-short-name} Console UI to use the {SMPluginShort}.

Author: Yes, we need to refresh the console to view the console plugin.

> . Refresh the {ocp-short-name} Console UI to use the {SMPluginShort}.

Reviewer: The OSSMC plugin takes some time to install, so it is possible that it is not yet installed when you access the OCP web console the first time, requiring you to refresh the page. In fact, if you are in the web console when the OSSMC plugin finishes installing, a notification pop-up will appear prompting you to refresh the page.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2453c293-c3fb-4f97-b36b-87bb86972950)

> . Go to the {ocp-short-name} web console.
> 
> . To use the {SMPluginShort}, refresh the web console.

Reviewer: I think these two steps should be within a verification section, following the same format as the uninstall process.
```suggestion
.Verification

. Go to the {ocp-short-name} web console.

. Verify that the *{SMProductShortName}* category is added in the main {ocp-short-name} web console navigation. If it does not appear, refresh the web console. The {SMPluginShort} can take some time to install.
```

+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
cat <<EOM | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: kiali.io/v1alpha1
kind: OSSMConsole
metadata:
  namespace: openshift-operators
  name: ossmconsole
spec:
  version: default
EOM
----
+
[NOTE]
====
The {ossmc-full} (OSSMC) version must match with the {KialiServer} version. If `spec.version` field value is the string `default` or is not specified, the Kiali Operator installs OSSMC with the same version as the operator. The `spec.version` field requires the `v` prefix in the version number. The version number must only include the major and minor version numbers (not the patch number); for example: `v1.73`.
====
+
The plugin resources deploy in the same namespace as the `OSSMConsole` CR.

. Optional: If more than one {KialiServer} is installed in the cluster, specify the `spec.kiali` setting in the OSSMC CR. For example:
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
cat <<EOM | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: kiali.io/v1alpha1
kind: OSSMConsole
metadata:
  namespace: openshift-operators
  name: ossmconsole
spec:
  kiali:
    serviceName: kiali
    serviceNamespace: istio-system-two
    servicePort: 20001
EOM
----

.Verification

> . Wait until the web console notifies you that the {SMPluginShort} is installed and prompts you to refresh.

Reviewer: It is not the same situation as when installing from the web console because, in this case, you are installing OSSMC from the terminal. Therefore, the first step to verify the installation is to go to the web console.
```suggestion
. Go to the {ocp-short-name} web console.

. Verify that the *{SMProductShortName}* category is added in the main {ocp-short-name} web console navigation.

. If the {SMPluginShort} is not installed yet, wait until the web console notifies you that the {SMPluginShort} is installed and prompts you to refresh.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * service-mesh-docs-main/observability/kiali/ossm-console-plugin.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ossm-install-console-plugin-ocp-cli_{context}"]
= Installing {SMPluginShort} by using the CLI

You can install the {SMPlugin} by using the {ocp-short-name} CLI.

.Prerequisites

> * You have access to the {ocp-short-name} CLI on the cluster as an administrator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You have access to the {oc-first} on the cluster as an administrator.
```

* You have installed the {SMProduct} (OSSM).
* You have installed the `{istio}` control plane from OSSM 3.0.
* You have installed the {KialiServer} 2.4.

.Procedure

. Create a `OSSMConsole` custom resource (CR) to install the plugin:
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
cat <<EOM | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: kiali.io/v1alpha1
kind: OSSMConsole
metadata:
  namespace: openshift-operators
  name: ossmconsole
spec:
  version: default
EOM
----
+
[NOTE]
====
The {ossmc-full} (OSSMC) version must match with the {KialiServer} version. If `spec.version` field value is the string `default` or is not specified, the Kiali Operator installs OSSMC with the same version as the operator. The `spec.version` field requires the `v` prefix in the version number. The version number must only include the major and minor version numbers (not the patch number); for example: `v1.73`.
====
+
The plugin resources deploy in the same namespace as the `OSSMConsole` CR.

> . Optional: If more than one {KialiServer} is installed in the cluster, specify the `spec.kiali` setting in the OSSMC CR. For example:
> +
> [source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
> ----
> cat <<EOM | oc apply -f -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Optional: If more than one {KialiServer} is installed in the cluster, specify the `spec.kiali` setting in the OSSMC CR by running a command similar to the following example:
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes,verbatim"]
----
$ cat <<EOM | oc apply -f -
```

apiVersion: kiali.io/v1alpha1
kind: OSSMConsole
metadata:
  namespace: openshift-operators
  name: ossmconsole
spec:
  kiali:
    serviceName: kiali
    serviceNamespace: istio-system-two
    servicePort: 20001
EOM
----

.Verification

. Go to the {ocp-short-name} web console.

> . Verify that the *{SMProductShortName}* category is added in the main {ocp-short-name} web console navigation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Verify that the *{SMProductShortName}* category is added in the main {ocp-product-title} web console navigation.
```
